reference/rpc/gettxoutproof.rst, before:

.. This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
   http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.

gettxoutproof
=============

``gettxoutproof ["txid",...] ( "blockhash" )``

Returns a hex-encoded proof that "txid" was included in a block.

NOTE: By default this function only works sometimes. This is when there is an
unspent output in the utxo for this transaction. To make it always work,
you need to maintain a transaction index, using the -txindex command line option or
specify the block in which the transaction is included manually (by blockhash).

Argument #1 - txids
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type:** json array, required

A json array of txids to filter

::

     [
       "txid",    (string) A transaction hash
       ...
     ]

Argument #2 - blockhash
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type:** string, optional

If specified, looks for txid in the block with this hash

Result
~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Description
   * - data
     - string
     - A string that is a serialized, hex-encoded data for the proof.

Commit message:

Added hint about pruned blocks.

reference/rpc/gettxoutproof.rst, after:

.. This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
   http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.

gettxoutproof
=============

``gettxoutproof ["txid",...] ( "blockhash" )``

Returns a hex-encoded proof that "txid" was included in a block.

NOTE: By default this function only works sometimes. This is when there is an
unspent output in the utxo for this transaction and the corresponding block was not 
pruned. To make it always work, you need to maintain a transaction index, using the 
-txindex command line option or specify the block in which the transaction is 
included manually (by blockhash). 

Argument #1 - txids
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type:** json array, required

A json array of txids to filter

::

     [
       "txid",    (string) A transaction hash
       ...
     ]

Argument #2 - blockhash
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type:** string, optional

If specified, looks for txid in the block with this hash

Result
~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Type
     - Description
   * - data
     - string
     - A string that is a serialized, hex-encoded data for the proof.
